README.md, before:

# Foojay Toolchains Plugin

The `org.gradle.disco-toolchains` plugin provides a [repository for downloading JVMs](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/toolchains.html#sub:download_repositories). It is based on the [foojay DiscoAPI](https://github.com/foojayio/discoapi).

# Usage

To make use of the plugin add following to your `settings.gradle.kts` file:

```
plugins {
    id("org.gradle.toolchains.foojay-resolver-convention") version("0.3.0")
}
```

This is a convention plugin meant to simplify configuration.
What it does is equivalent to applying the base plugin and some extra configuration:

```
plugins {
    id("org.gradle.toolchains.foojay-resolver") version("0.3.0")
}

toolchainManagement {
    jvm {
        javaRepositories {
            repository("foojay") {
                resolverClass.set(org.gradle.toolchains.foojay.FoojayToolchainResolver::class.java)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Feel free to use either approach.

For further information about using Toolchain Download Repositories consult the [Gradle Manual](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/toolchains.html#sub:download_repositories).

# Matching Toolchain Specifications

The main thing the plugin does is to match [Gradle's toolchain specifications](https://docs.gradle.org/current/javadoc/org/gradle/jvm/toolchain/JavaToolchainSpec.html) to foojay DiscoAPI distributions and packages. 

## Vendors

There is mostly a 1-to-1 relationship between the DiscoAPI's distributions and Gradle vendors.
The plugin works with the following mapping:

| Gradle JVM Vendor       | Foojay Distribution       |
|-------------------------|---------------------------|
| \<no vendor specified\> | Temurin                   |
| ADOPTIUM                | Temurin                   |
| ADOPTONEJDK             | AOJ                       |
| AMAZON                  | Corretto                  |
| APPLE                   | -                         |
| AZUL                    | Zulu                      |
| BELLSOFT                | Liberica                  |
| GRAAL_VM                | Graal VM CE 8/11/16/17/19 |
| HEWLETT_PACKARD         | -                         |
| IBM                     | Semeru                    |
| IBM_SEMERU              | Semeru                    |
| MICROSOFT               | Microsoft                 |
| ORACLE                  | Oracle OpenJDK            |
| SAP                     | SAP Machine               |

To note:

* If no vendor is specified, then the `Temurin` distribution is picked (due to the history of the auto-provisioning feature in Gradle, specifically that AdoptOpenJDK/Adoptium have been the default sources for downloading JVMs).
* Not all Gradle vendors have an equivalent DiscoAPI distribution, empty cells indicate that no toolchain will be provisioned.

## Implementations

When specifying toolchains Gradle distinguishes between `J9` JVMs and `VENDOR_SPECIFIC` ones (ie. any other).
What this criteria does in the plugin is to influence the Vendor-to-Distribution matching table.
`VENDOR_SPECIFICATION` doesn't change it at all, while `J9` alter it like this:

| Gradle JVM Vendor       | Foojay Distribution |
|-------------------------|---------------------|
| \<no vendor specified\> | Semeru              |
| ADOPTIUM                | -                   |
| ADOPTONEJDK             | AOJ OpenJ9          |
| AMAZON                  | -                   |
| APPLE                   | -                   |
| AZUL                    | -                   |
| BELLSOFT                | -                   |
| GRAAL_VM                | -                   |
| HEWLETT_PACKARD         | -                   |
| IBM                     | Semeru              |
| IBM_SEMERU              | Semeru              |
| MICROSOFT               | -                   |
| ORACLE                  | -                   |
| SAP                     | -                   |

Empty cells indicate that no toolchain will be provisioned

## Versions

Once the vendor and the implementation values of the toolchain spec have been used to select a DiscoAPI distribution, a specific package of that distribution needs to be picked by the plugin, in order for it to obtain a download link. 
The inputs it uses to do this are:
* the major **Java version** number for the spec
* the **operating system** running the build that made the request
* the **CPU architecture** of the system running the build that made the request

Additional criteria used for selection:
* for each major version number only packages having the latest minor version will be considered 
* only packages containing an archive of a format known to Gradle will be considered (zip, tar, tgz)
* JDKs have priority over JREs

Commit message:

Try distributions one-by-one if no vendor is specified (#13)
Instead of always using Temurin when no vendor has been specified, the
plugin now tries all distributions one by one.

Co-authored-by: Benedikt Ritter <benedikt@gradle.com>
Co-authored-by: Felipe Fernández <felipe@gradle.com>
Co-Authored-By: Marc Philipp <marc@gradle.com>
Co-authored-by: József Bartók <jbartok@gradle.com>

README.md, after:

# Foojay Toolchains Plugin

The `org.gradle.disco-toolchains` plugin provides a [repository for downloading JVMs](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/toolchains.html#sub:download_repositories). It is based on the [foojay DiscoAPI](https://github.com/foojayio/discoapi).

# Usage

To make use of the plugin add following to your `settings.gradle.kts` file:

```
plugins {
    id("org.gradle.toolchains.foojay-resolver-convention") version("0.3.0")
}
```

This is a convention plugin meant to simplify configuration.
What it does is equivalent to applying the base plugin and some extra configuration:

```
plugins {
    id("org.gradle.toolchains.foojay-resolver") version("0.3.0")
}

toolchainManagement {
    jvm {
        javaRepositories {
            repository("foojay") {
                resolverClass.set(org.gradle.toolchains.foojay.FoojayToolchainResolver::class.java)
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Feel free to use either approach.

For further information about using Toolchain Download Repositories consult the [Gradle Manual](https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/toolchains.html#sub:download_repositories).

# Matching Toolchain Specifications

The main thing the plugin does is to match [Gradle's toolchain specifications](https://docs.gradle.org/current/javadoc/org/gradle/jvm/toolchain/JavaToolchainSpec.html) to foojay DiscoAPI distributions and packages. 

## Vendors

There is mostly a 1-to-1 relationship between the DiscoAPI's distributions and Gradle vendors.
The plugin works with the following mapping:

| Gradle JVM Vendor       | Foojay Distribution       |
|-------------------------|---------------------------|
| ADOPTIUM                | Temurin                   |
| ADOPTONEJDK             | AOJ                       |
| AMAZON                  | Corretto                  |
| APPLE                   | -                         |
| AZUL                    | Zulu                      |
| BELLSOFT                | Liberica                  |
| GRAAL_VM                | Graal VM CE 8/11/16/17/19 |
| HEWLETT_PACKARD         | -                         |
| IBM                     | Semeru                    |
| IBM_SEMERU              | Semeru                    |
| MICROSOFT               | Microsoft                 |
| ORACLE                  | Oracle OpenJDK            |
| SAP                     | SAP Machine               |

**To note:**
Not all Gradle vendors have an equivalent DiscoAPI distribution, empty cells indicate that no toolchain will be provisioned.
If no vendor is specified, distributions are iterated in the order they are provided by the DiscoAPI, and the first one that has a compatible installation package available is selected.
The exception to the Foojay ordering of distributions is that "Temurin" (ADOPTIUM) and then "AOJ" (ADOPTONEJDK) come first, due to the history of the auto-provisioning feature in Gradle, specifically that AdoptOpenJDK/Adoptium have been the default sources for downloading JVMs.

## Implementations

When specifying toolchains Gradle distinguishes between `J9` JVMs and `VENDOR_SPECIFIC` ones (ie. any other).
What this criteria does in the plugin is to influence the Vendor-to-Distribution matching table.
`VENDOR_SPECIFICATION` doesn't change it at all, while `J9` alter it like this:

| Gradle JVM Vendor       | Foojay Distribution |
|-------------------------|---------------------|
| \<no vendor specified\> | Semeru              |
| ADOPTIUM                | -                   |
| ADOPTONEJDK             | AOJ OpenJ9          |
| AMAZON                  | -                   |
| APPLE                   | -                   |
| AZUL                    | -                   |
| BELLSOFT                | -                   |
| GRAAL_VM                | -                   |
| HEWLETT_PACKARD         | -                   |
| IBM                     | Semeru              |
| IBM_SEMERU              | Semeru              |
| MICROSOFT               | -                   |
| ORACLE                  | -                   |
| SAP                     | -                   |

Empty cells indicate that no toolchain will be provisioned

## Versions

Once the vendor and the implementation values of the toolchain spec have been used to select a DiscoAPI distribution, a specific package of that distribution needs to be picked by the plugin, in order for it to obtain a download link. 
The inputs it uses to do this are:
* the major **Java version** number for the spec
* the **operating system** running the build that made the request
* the **CPU architecture** of the system running the build that made the request

Additional criteria used for selection:
* for each major version number only packages having the latest minor version will be considered 
* only packages containing an archive of a format known to Gradle will be considered (zip, tar, tgz)
* JDKs have priority over JREs
